Building a User Authentication System

Objective: To build a user authentication system using PHP and MySQL.

Task:

In this assignment, you will create a user authentication system using PHP and MySQL. The goal is to implement user registration, login, and password hashing functionalities. You will also design a MySQL database schema to securely store user information.

Assignment Requirements:

Database Setup: Set up a MySQL database to store user information securely. Your database schema should include tables for user registration and login.

User Registration:

Create a PHP registration form that allows users to sign up by providing a username and password.
Implement server-side validation to ensure that usernames are unique and that passwords meet security requirements (e.g., minimum length, complexity).
Hash and securely store user passwords in the database. Use PHP's password hashing functions (e.g., password_hash) for this purpose.
User Login:

Create a PHP login form that allows registered users to log in by providing their username and password.
Implement server-side validation to verify user credentials against the database.
Use PHP's password verification functions (e.g., password_verify) to compare stored hashed passwords with the provided password.
Session Management: Implement PHP session management to keep users authenticated across multiple pages after a successful login.

Security Considerations: Discuss security best practices for protecting against common vulnerabilities such as SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS).

Assignment Deliverables:

Submit your assignment as a ZIP file containing the following items:

PHP files for user registration and login (e.g., register.php, login.php).

SQL script or schema file (e.g., schema.sql) that defines the MySQL database tables and structure for user information.

A README or documentation file explaining the structure of your PHP files and MySQL schema, including any security measures implemented.

Example Submission (partial):

PHP File (register.php):


<?php
// User registration logic goes here
?>


PHP File (login.php):


<?php
// User login logic goes here
?>


SQL Schema File (schema.sql):


-- SQL schema for user information
CREATE TABLE users (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    username VARCHAR(50) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
    password VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL
);


README (readme.txt):


Assignment 4: User Authentication System

This assignment includes PHP files for user registration and login, as well as an SQL schema for user information.

- register.php: User registration logic.
- login.php: User login logic.
- schema.sql: MySQL database schema for user information.

Security Measures:
- Passwords are securely hashed using password_hash.
- User inputs are sanitized to prevent SQL injection and XSS.


Grading Criteria:

Your assignment will be graded based on the following criteria:

Correct implementation of user registration and login functionality.
Proper password hashing and verification using PHP functions.
Secure handling of user inputs to prevent vulnerabilities.
Clarity of documentation and explanations.
Adherence to best practices for user authentication system security.