Implementing a Web Application

Objective: To apply OOP principles and database integration in a web application.

Task:

In this assignment, you will design and implement a web application using PHP that incorporates object-oriented programming (OOP) principles and integrates with a MySQL database. The goal is to create a functional web application with CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for a specific scenario.

Assignment Scenario: A Task Management System

You are tasked with developing a Task Management System. Users should be able to create tasks, view a list of tasks, edit task details, and delete tasks. The application should have the following features:

Functional Requirements:

User Registration and Login:

Users should be able to register for an account with a username and password.
Registered users should be able to log in to access the task management features.
Task Management:

Registered users can create tasks with a title, description, and due date.
Users can view a list of their tasks.
Users can edit task details.
Users can delete tasks.
Database Integration:

Use MySQL to store user account information (e.g., username and hashed password) and task details (e.g., title, description, due date).
Design a suitable database schema to support these features.
Object-Oriented Design:

Implement PHP classes that encapsulate the core functionality of the application, such as a User class for user management and a Task class for task management.
User Authentication:

Implement user registration and login functionality.
Use PHP sessions to manage user authentication.
Assignment Deliverables:

Submit your assignment as a ZIP file containing the following items:

PHP files for the web application, organized into appropriate directories (e.g., registration/, task_management/).

SQL script or schema file (e.g., schema.sql) that defines the MySQL database tables and structure.

A README or documentation file explaining the organization of your PHP files, the structure of your MySQL database, and how to use the web application.

Example Submission (partial):

PHP File (create_task.php):


<?php
// Task creation logic goes here
?>


PHP File (view_tasks.php):


<?php
// Task listing logic goes here
?>


SQL Schema File (schema.sql):


-- SQL schema for user information and tasks
CREATE TABLE users (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    username VARCHAR(50) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
    password VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL
);

CREATE TABLE tasks (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    user_id INT NOT NULL,
    title VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
    description TEXT,
    due_date DATE,
    FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id)
);


README (readme.txt):


Assignment 5: Task Management System

This assignment includes PHP files for a Task Management System web application, as well as an SQL schema for the database.

- create_task.php: Task creation logic.
- view_tasks.php: Task listing logic.
- schema.sql: MySQL database schema for user information and tasks.

To run the application, follow the instructions in the documentation file.

Grading Criteria:

Your assignment will be graded based on the following criteria:

Correct implementation of user registration, login, and task management functionality.
Proper database schema design and integration.
Effective use of PHP classes and OOP principles.
Secure handling of user inputs and authentication.
Clarity of documentation and explanations.
Adherence to best practices for web application development.