Setting Up Your PHP Development Environment

Objective: To set up a PHP development environment.

Task:

In this assignment, you will learn how to set up a local PHP development environment on your computer. A working development environment is essential for PHP programming and web development. Follow the steps below to complete the assignment:

Instructions:

Choose a Development Environment:

Select a PHP development environment that suits your operating system. Two popular options are XAMPP (for Windows, macOS, and Linux) and WAMP (for Windows).
Install the Development Environment:

Download the installation package for your chosen environment from the official website.
Follow the installation instructions provided for your platform.
During installation, select the components you want to install, which typically include PHP, Apache (web server), and MySQL (database server).
Verify Installation:

After installation, launch your PHP development environment.
Open a web browser and enter the URL http://localhost/ or http://127.0.0.1/.
If the installation was successful, you should see a page confirming that your web server is running.
Create a "Hello, World!" PHP Script:

Using a text editor (e.g., Notepad on Windows or any code editor you prefer), create a simple PHP script that displays "Hello, World!" on a web page.
Save the PHP script with a .php file extension (e.g., hello.php) in the appropriate directory (usually named "htdocs" in your development environment).
View Your PHP Page:

Open a web browser and enter the URL http://localhost/hello.php (or the path where you saved your PHP script).
You should see "Hello, World!" displayed in your browser.
Submission:

Submit a brief report (in a text document or email) confirming the successful setup of your PHP development environment. Mention the environment you chose (XAMPP or WAMP) and attach a screenshot of your web browser displaying the "Hello, World!" message.

Example Submission (partial):

Report (report.txt):


Assignment 1: Setting Up Your PHP Development Environment

I chose to set up the XAMPP development environment on my Windows 10 computer.

- I downloaded the XAMPP installer from the official website and followed the installation instructions.
- After installation, I launched XAMPP and confirmed that Apache and MySQL were running.
- I created a PHP script named "hello.php" with the content:
  ```php
  <?php
  echo "Hello, World!";
  ?>


I saved the "hello.php" file in the "htdocs" directory.
I successfully viewed my PHP page by entering the URL "http://localhost/hello.php" in my web browser.
Attached is a screenshot of my web browser displaying the "Hello, World!" message.

[Attach Screenshot]



**Grading Criteria:**

Your assignment will be evaluated based on the following criteria:

- Successful installation and configuration of the PHP development environment.
- Correct creation and execution of the "Hello, World!" PHP script.
- Clarity and completeness of the submission report.
- Proper attachment of the screenshot confirming the "Hello, World!" message.




